Walmart developed new techniques to track
and to replenish inventory.
Additionally, they use a distribution practice
called cross-docking that allows goods
to be continuously delivered to stores
without sitting in inventory.
The military has successfully used
the same practice since the 1950s.
Cross-docking is a logistics procedure
where products from the supplier or manufacturing plant
come in to a temporary warehouse
on the inbound transportation side.
The products are then distributed directly
to a customer or retail chain with minimal
storage time from the temporary warehouse
on the outbound transportation side.
An additional benefit is they also build
closer supplier-customer relationships,
particularly for fast-moving items
where demand patterns are more easily determined,
such as with diapers, skin care, and water products.